W-15661973-newscheduling-se (#381)
mulesoft/docs-rpa: rpa-manager/modules/ROOT/pages/processautomation-deploy.adoc

= Deploying Automations

The third phase of process automation is the *Test* phase. In this phase, you can test the implemented process model in different configurations. You can xref:processautomation-manage.adoc#transition-an-automation-project-to-another-phase[transition] back to *Build* phase to change the implementation.

When the tests are successful, transition to *Production* phase.

> The  *Production* phase is the final phase in the life cycle of a process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Production* phase is the final phase in the life cycle of a process. 
```

> You have three options how to run processes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have three ways to run a process:
```

== Deploy a Process Automation

Transition the project to the production phase to deploy a run configuration to a bot. The process runs fully automated from now on.

> Sometimes it's necessary to start a process manually when something happens that can only a human can evaluate. For example, the goods inwards inspection process can only start after the banana delivery ship reaches the pier wall. For this purpose, use the *Run Now* option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes it's necessary to start a process manually when something happens that only a human can evaluate. For example, the goods inwards inspection process can only start after the banana delivery ship reaches the pier wall. For this purpose, use the *Run Now* option.
```

> You have three options how to run processes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have three ways to run a process:
```

* Create and deploy a **Scheduled Run Configuration** to run the process automatically at defined times. 
* Create and publish an **Invocable Run Configuration** to use it within other Salesforce products.

> * Create an **On-Demand Run Configuration** to start the process run manually.

Reviewer: This text is a candidate for reuse.

Author: Do you think I can use it for all three paragraphs?

> You can run processes openly in existing console sessions or run them hidden in Secure Sessions. In console sessions, only one process can run at a time. In Secure Sessions, different processes or several instances of the same process can run in parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run processes openly in existing console sessions or hidden in Secure Sessions. In console sessions, only one process can run at a time. In Secure Sessions, different processes or several instances of the same process can run in parallel.
```

[[production-configuration]]
=== Create a Run Configuration

> A run configuration consists of a name, a description, initial values for the Activity Parameters, one or more bots and conditions for deployment of the automation with this configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A run configuration consists of a name, a description, initial values for the Activity Parameters, one or more bots, and conditions for deployment of the automation with this configuration. 
```

There are three types of run configurations: 

> * **Scheduled run configurations** define intervals for the runs.
> * **Invocable run configurations** are called from other products. Automations can have one invocable run configuration.
> * **On-demand run configurations** are started manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Scheduled run configurations**: run at defined intervals.
* **Invocable run configurations**: started from other products. 
+
Automation projects can have one invocable run configuration.
* **On-demand run configurations**: started manually.
```

The variables are typed. You can only enter or link values of the same type. The values entered here are start values, which can be overwritten by other values during the process run.
* *User Task*:
+

> User tasks are elements of a process model, which a bot can't process fully automatically by a bot, but which require the support of a human. Specify which users are to process the user tasks by clicking on the *User Assignment or  User Group Assignment* icon. The table displays number of assigned users and user groups. You can specify both users and user groups at the same time. The user task is then displayed to each specified user until a user reserves it for processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User tasks are elements of a process model that a bot can't process fully automatically and require human intervention. Specify which users are to process the user tasks by clicking on the *User Assignment* or *User Group Assignment* icon. The table displays the number of assigned users and user groups. You can specify both users and user groups at the same time. The user task is then displayed to each specified user until a user reserves it for processing.
```

Bots running an earlier version than 1.2.0 overtake an open console session without checking if the logged-in user matches the specified user.
+
[[runconfig-execution-enabletaskbar]] If you want to watch the execution of the process in the *Process Streaming* view of the *Process Monitoring* module or if the process uses elements of the Windows operating system like the start menu or the task bar, check *Enable Taskbar (Start menu, taskbar buttons)*.
* *Schedule*:
+
[%collapsible]

> .*Keep in mind that Bots might live in different time zones.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.*Note that bots might execute in different time zones.*
```
Removed the idiomatic expression and added "Note" to call the user's attention. Also wasn't sure about using "live" for the bot.

Author: Changed to 'Note' and 'run'

|5:30 PM - 9:30 AM (Buenos Aires time (ART (UTC -3)))

|===

The bot checks every minute whether it's within a scheduled time frame and within its service time and whether the required process applications are outside all downtimes. The process isn't executed if the executing bot is outside its service time or if one or more of the process applications used by the bot are within a downtime.

'''

====
+
Invocable and on-demand run configurations don't have schedules.
+
For a scheduled run configuration, choose the schedule type:
+
[IMPORTANT]
Interval and Cron expression scheduling are supported by bots running version 1.7.0 or later.
+
** *Interval*
Enter the interval to repeat the process. The process starts once at the beginning of each interval.
+
The intervals are equidistant in the defined time frame. For example, `Repeat my process every 10 minutes`. 
+
If you need a more complex interval, use *Cron expression*.
+
** *Cron expression*
+
Enter a Cron expression to repeat the process. The process starts once at the beginning of each interval.
+

> The intervals aren't equidistant. For example, `Run my process on minutes 3, 11, and 48 of every hour between 08:00 AM and 10:42 PM, only on Monday and Friday, only in February until April, and in November`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The intervals aren't equidistant. For example, `Run my process on minutes 3, 11, and 48 of every hour between 08:00 AM and 10:42 PM, only on Monday and Friday, from February to April, and in November`.
```

+
If you need a simpler interval, use *Interval*.
+
You can use the Cron expression helper to compile the expresssion and check the natural language schedule summary.
+
.What is a Cron expression?
[%collapsible]
=====

'''

> Cron is a widely used standard for describing time and date information. You use a cron expression to define complex intervals, for example, `Run my process on minutes 3, 11, and 48 of every hour between 08:00 AM and 10:42 PM, only on Monday and Friday, only in February until April, and in November.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cron is a widely used standard for describing time and date information. You use a cron expression to define complex intervals, for example, `Run my process on minutes 3, 11, and 48 of every hour between 08:00 AM and 10:42 PM, only on Monday and Friday, from February to April, and in November.
```

The scheduler keeps track of every minute and starts the process run when the Cron expression matches the bot's time-date setting. You can trigger the event just once or at regular intervals.

A date-time expression in the Cron format used by RPA Manager consists of five required settings in the following order:

. Minutes (`0`-`59`)
. Hours (`0`-`23`)
. Day of month (`1`-`31`)
. Month (`1`-`12`)
. Day of the week (`0`-`7`), where Sunday is either `0` or `7`

The Scheduler component also supports the following special characters:

* `*`: All values within the range of valid values.
* `-`: Range of values within the range of valid values, for example, `1-3`.
* `,`: Additional values within the range of valid values, for example, `1,7`.
* `/`: Incremental values within the range of valid values starting with the first specified value, for example, `1/7`.

You can set either the day of the week or day of the month, but not both. Replace either the day of the week or day of the month with an asterisk.

The Scheduler supports most standard Cron expressions. Here are a few good and bad examples:

[%header,cols="3*"]
|===
|Expression |Behavior |Explanation 

> |`5 4 3 2 1` | At 04:05 AM on every Monday in every February and (?) on the 3rd of every February| This Cron expression is invalid. You can set either the day of the week or day of the month, but not both. Replace either the day of the week or day of the month with an asterisk. If you want to run a process exactly once on a specific time, you must specify the day of the month but not the day of the week. See next two examples. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`5 4 3 2 1` | At 04:05 AM on every Monday in every February and (?) on the 3rd of every February| This Cron expression is invalid. You can set either the day of the week or the day of the month, but not both. Replace either the day of the week or the day of the month with an asterisk. If you want to run a process exactly once at a specific time, you must specify the day of the month but not the day of the week. See the next two examples. 
```

> |`5 4 3 2 *` | At 04:05 AM on the 3rd of every February| If you want to run a process exactly once on a specific time, you must specify the day of the month but not the day of the week. You can't specify the year. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`5 4 3 2 *` | At 04:05 AM on the 3rd of every February| If you want to run a process exactly once at a specific time, you must specify the day of the month but not the day of the week. You can't specify the year. 
```

> |`5 4 * 2 3` | At 04:05 AM on every Wednesday of every February| If you want to run a process exactly once on a specific time, you must specify the day of the month but not the day of the week.You can't specify the year. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`5 4 * 2 3` | At 04:05 AM on every Wednesday of every February| If you want to run a process exactly once at a specific time, you must specify the day of the month but not the day of the week. You can't specify the year. 
```

> |`*/7 * * * *` |Run at minute 00, 07, 14, 21, 28, 35, 42, 49, 56 of every hour (of every day of every month on every weekday). |Starts at minute 0 because it's the first of all values in the valid range (*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`*/7 * * * *` |At minute 00, 07, 14, 21, 28, 35, 42, 49, 56 of every hour (of every day of every month on every weekday). |Starts at minute 0 because it's the first of all values in the valid range (*).
```

> |`45/05 * * * *` |Run at minutes 45, 50, and 55 of every hour |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`45/05 * * * *` |At minutes 45, 50, and 55 of every hour |
```
To make the behavior consistent with the previous ones.

> |`* * * * *` |Run every minute forever |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`* * * * *` | Every minute forever |
```

|`* 9-16 * * 1-5` |Every minute, between 09:00 AM and 04:59 PM, Monday through Friday |
|`00,10,42 9-16 1-10,20-30 2-7,12 *`` |At 0, 10, and 42 minutes past the hour, between 09:00 AM and 04:59 PM, on day 1 through 10 and 20 through 30 of the month, and on Friday, only in February through July and December |You can combine lists and ranges.
|===

> Non-existant times, such as 'missing hours' during daylight savings conversion, never match the bot's time-date setting, causing processes scheduled during the 'missing times' not to run. Similarly, times that occur more than once (again, during daylight savings conversion) cause matching processes to run twice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Non-existent times, such as 'missing hours' during daylight savings conversion, never match the bot's time-date setting, causing processes scheduled during the 'missing times' not to run. Times that occur more than once (again, during daylight savings conversion) cause matching processes to run twice.
```

'''
=====
+
** *Calendar Scheduling*
+
Use this option to edit run configurations that already use calendar scheduling.
+ 

> Add one or more fixed schedules within which the productive run is carried out continuously. For each schedule, define time intervals within which the process is executed. RPA Manager combines all schedules to compute the execution times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add one or more fixed schedules within which RPA continuously executes the productive run. For each schedule, define time intervals within which RPA executes the process. RPA Manager combines all schedules to compute the execution times.
```

+
.How does calendar scheduling work?
[%collapsible]
=====

'''

> You can create multiple schedules. These may also overlap. All schedules together make up a time frame within which the process may be executed. The executing bot checks every minute whether it's within this time frame or not. A new process run isn't started until all conditions have been fulfilled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create multiple overlapping schedules. All schedules together make up a time frame within which the process executes. The executing bot checks every minute whether it's within the time frame. A new process run doesn't start until all conditions are fulfilled.
```

Author: The process may be executed = It is allowed to run in this time frame. But might not be executed because of Bot Service Times or Application Down Times.

For this reason, the executing bot checks every minute whether it's within a service time and whether the required process applications are outside all downtimes. The process isn't executed if the executing bot is outside its service time or if one or more of the process applications used by the bot are within a downtime.

> Running processes are always executed completely.

Reviewer: What does this mean? That processes always run until they finish? Isn't this the normal/expected behavior? Why clarify? 

Also, what happens if the bot crashes or the machine hosting the bot crashes? In that case, isn't this statement false?

Author: The process might take longer to run than the pause between the Bot's Service Time takes. So it might indeed run outside service time.
Maintaining a bot might therefore lead to breaking a running process.
Crashs always interrupt any run. That should be clear to the user from software experience.

Author: Rephrased the paragraph

> When creating new schedules, pay attention to whether the new schedules overlap with schedules of other configurations and ensure that the executing bots have enough free sessions. Otherwise, trigger executions might be skipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating new schedules, pay attention to whether the new schedules overlap with schedules of other configurations and ensure that the executing bots have enough free sessions. Otherwise, triggered executions might be skipped.
```
Is this correct? Or maybe "some executions might..."

Author: Good catch. This is a relict. There once was a trigger element that started a process.  
--> some is correct

+
If one of the selected bots isn't configured appropriately, RPA Manager displays a notification, and you can't proceed with the configuration.
Hover the mouse pointer over the info label to display more detailed information about the cause of the warning or error in the form of a tooltip.
+ 
Set the number of Secure Sessions for each bot. On-demand run configurations have only one session.
. Click *Save*.

[[copy-run-config]]
=== Copy a Run Configuration

Copy a run configuration if you need to change only a few parameters.

You can also copy a scheduled or an invocable run configuration as an on-demand run configuration.

To copy a run configuration:

. Open the *Process Management* view of the *Process Automation* module and click on the name of the category of your project.
. Click on the name of a project to open it.

> . Click the *Copy* icon (image:copy-icon.png[copy symbol,1.5%,1.5%]) in the table row of the run configuration you want to copy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *Copy* icon (image:copy-icon.png[copy symbol,1.5%,1.5%]) in the table row of the run configuration to copy.
```

. Click on the name of a project to open it.
. Click *Select action*.
. From the dropdown, select *Deploy process*.
. In the window *Select Configuration to deploy*, check all configurations to run.
. Click *Execute*.

[[trigger-run-once]]
=== Run a Configuration Once

The configuration to run once must either be invocable or marked as <<run-once-tag, *Start Manually*>>.

To start the single process run:

. Open the *Process Management* view of the *Process Automation* module and click on the name of the category of your project.
. Click on the name of a project to open it.
. Click *Select action*.
. From the dropdown, select *Run once*.
. In the window *Select Configuration to Run once*, check all configurations to run.
. Click *Execute*.

> The run starts directly. If an invokable configuration is triggered at the same time using the same session, the run waits for the invokable run to be completed before starting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The run starts directly. If an invocable configuration is triggered at the same time using the same session, the run waits for the invocable run to complete before starting.
```
